---
layout: single
title: "Tibrah"
date:   2021-11-15 12:00:00 -0600
author_profile: true
excerpt: 'Tib is related to "health" in Urdu and Rah means way/solution in Urdu. Covid-19 Mobile App and a WhatsApp chatbot'
excerpt_separator: "<!--more-->"
header:
  teaser: "/images/tibrah.jpg"
  overlay_image: /images/islamabad.jpg
  caption: "Photo credit: [**wallpaper safari**](https://img.wallpapersafari.com/desktop/1024/576/47/98/QyksSR.jpg)"
  overlay_filter: 0.5 # same as adding an opacity of 0.5 to a black background
---


## Introduction

I developed this Android app during the start of covid in Pakistan last year. This app was to assist people in locating blood donors and nearby testing facilities, hospitals, checking case statuses of infected patients in surrounding areas and more. You can check out this video below to get a sense of its features.

<iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/661774485?h=577f961594" width="500" height="400" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; fullscreen; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>


## WhatsApp chatbot

WhatsApp is one of the most popular messaging platforms in Pakistan, if not the most popular. It is widely used across all social groups especially the lower strata of the society. I figured these people would be better served if they could get all of their information from the application they already use to communicate.  In addition to serving thousands of requests, I also teamed up with the local chapter of Dewar-e-Meherbani (Wall of Kindness) to spread this bot to the worst-effected groups in my locality. Check out the videos below on the features of this bot.

<iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/670128684?h=0fd2d63f1b" width="500" height="400" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; fullscreen; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Blood donor data was collected through charities and groups while people also had an option to volunteer and input their own:


<iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/670127417?h=89eeb88ad6" width="500" height="400" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; fullscreen; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>


## Acknowledgements

Without these people, this project, especially the quality of this app would have been ordinary or may not have been possible at all. Special thanks to **Ammar** for app testing, help with publishing, social media setup, **Rizwan** for the awesome graphics on the app and social media imagery, and countless friends and family for the spreading the word among their social sphere.

